For our family, there were times when we
thought we wouldn't have a son,
that our son Tuan would die, because all the
hospitals we took him to said they could
save him. We
felt that Buddhist teachings are truly miraculous. I
respectfully address the Venerable Monks and Nuns, the Chairperson of the
Continental Defense Club, and
all the friends
and acquaintances present today in the main hall
of Ba Vang Temple.
My name is Le Trung Ha, I am the father of Le
Trung Tuan, from Thanh Hoa. Our family
learned about Buddhism through our son
Tuan's illness
over a long period. We
traveled everywhere to find
medicine and treatment for him, visiting many
hospitals, traditional medicine practitioners, and ethnic minority
doctors in
remote areas and major hospitals throughout
Vietnam. I took him from the
South to the North, and I traveled alone during
that time while my wife took care of the baby.
To fulfill our mission, we tried our best to save our son.
All the hospitals
told us that Le Trung Tuan had
cancer, specifically skull bone cancer in the frontal region, with the
cell type being Shaco, destroying the
facial cartilage. The cancer was undifferentiated and there was no
chance of surgery to save him. Our family
received a lot of support from the
community and all the
kind-hearted people who
helped us. Afterward, we
received phone calls from people in
Quang Ninh province, and
many Buddhist followers from the compassionate Buddhist group, including Ms.
Pham Thi Hien, the head of the
club. She directly asked the abbot for permission to come
to our family and encouraged us to do
everything possible to help our son. If
Western medicine treatment proved ineffective,
Ms. Hien and all the Buddhist followers came to our
family and brought Tuan to
Ba Vang Pagoda. The monks
and Ms. Pham Thi Hien, the head of the
Golden Cup Buddhist club, encouraged us and shared
Buddhist teachings with our family.
Today, our family...  There were
times when we thought we wouldn't have a
son, that Tuan would die, because all
the hospitals we took him to said they could
save him.
Ms. Pham Thi
Yen, along with all the Buddhists from the
club, came to our home to encourage us to
take Tuan to a temple. The family remembers
most vividly the first day of the second lunar month of
2013, around 9 PM, when the family went to the
temple for the first time, even though they didn't know anything about
Buddhism. But being at the
temple, the
father and son were loved and
respected by everyone. The monk came directly to
talk to and advise Tuan, saying, "
As a father, you must take care of your son at
all costs. If there are any other options, protect him."
When Ms. Pham Thi Yen took him away,
Tuan said, "I can't go out
there. If I have eyes, I'll leave them
at home. My mother just gave birth to a baby, so I'll stay home."
Ms. Pham Thi Yen, as well as
all the Buddhists, said, "Son, try to
go just once. You don't know anything yet."  Having been
to Ba Vang Pagoda, I went
there and experienced many miraculous things. I was
able to get through the first night. Le Trung Tuan
called his mother from Ba Vang Pagoda, saying, "Mom, I
think I can stay here." And
after four months, with the
support of all the Buddhist groups, the master, and the monks and
nuns of the pagoda,
we were given the opportunity to
learn about Buddhism. Today,
our family is able to... Perhaps we should
sit before all the venerable monks
and nuns during the time Le Trung
Tuan stayed at Ba Vang Pagoda. With
one heart and mind, we recited
Buddha's name and did all
good deeds, following the guidance of the master, the great monks,
Ms. Pham Thi Yen, and
all the Buddhists from all the groups who
supported our family.
On July 23, 2013,
before we knew about Buddhism, our family
experienced miraculous changes. The
tumor in Tuan's body
gradually shrank and atrophied. The master was the one who
directly helped us.  First, on the night of February 1st, the master
stroked Tuan's nose and said, "Tuan,
your karma is very heavy. I know
that this heavy karma is predetermined.
If you don't make it, you have to accept it.
But if you do make it, you
will become someone who knows about
Buddhist teachings. You may only recover a few
dozen percent, but if you can call it complete recovery,
you must try to believe deeply in
Buddhist teachings. We continuously received
support from Ms. Pham Thi Yen and all the Buddhists from all the temples for a long time. For
four consecutive months, on the night of
July, while my father was at the temple
performing a ceremony, he received
a phone call
informing him that Le Trung Tuan would be taken
to Vinmec Hanoi International General Hospital
for examination by foreign doctors.
At that time, the master said, 'Tuan, the tumor
has temporarily shrunk and moved much further away. This
is due to the Buddhist teachings of your family and the
deep faith of your whole family. Your family has very
deep faith in Buddhist teachings and has received
a lot of support from them.'"  The Venerable Master and
all the disciples, as well as all the
young men who hadn't yet formed the club at that time, were there
to support the family. On the day of the surgery, I
respectfully told the Venerable Master, "
Today, Le Trung Tuan is going to have surgery." The Venerable
Master said, "Today, I am on a business trip
to Hanoi. Don't worry, I will ride my
electric bicycle back to ensure everyone, including the monks of the temple, as well
as Ms. Pham Thi Yen and all the young men, are
supporting me, Le Trung
Tuan, to get through this." The Venerable Master also advised
our family that he is grateful for
everyone's merits and to try to
do everything possible and not give
up when things are still possible. He also emphasized the importance of
deep faith in the Dharma.
Our family expresses our sincere gratitude to the Venerable
Master, as well as to Dai Thang and all the
Buddhist followers of the club's chairperson and
all the Dharma centers for their support. And
today, Le Trung Tuan, from our family,
has become a disciple of the Minh
Hien Dharma center in Vinh Trung town, Thanh Hoa province, and
has found his destiny with
Thi Sen, a disciple with the Dharma name
Hanh.  On behalf of the Minh Long Son Tay Buddhist Association in
Hanoi, my family would like to express our gratitude for the merits
of our teacher, the great funeral of Ms.
Pham Thi Yen, and all the Buddhists in the
association and everyone who has helped
our family.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. I
respectfully address my teacher and all
the Venerable Monks and Nuns. I respectfully
address Ms. Pham Thi Yen, the head of the association. My name is Le
Xuan Tan. As my father just said, when I
was suffering from illness,
I was still young and didn't
think much about it.
But after several visits to the hospital,
and finally returning home, I
thought I would die.
After learning about Buddhism, about the Three
Jewels, and receiving guidance from my teacher, the monks,
and Ms. Pham Thi Yen, my
family and I practiced and
felt that my spirit was transformed.
After that, I underwent
surgery to treat my illness.
I feel that Buddhism is truly effective, truly
miraculous, and saved
me from the brink of death.
Between life and death,
until now, I have come to know the
wondrous Dharma of Buddhism, and after that,
I also
had the thought of wishing for
a
happy life for myself.
Now, I feel that
my wish has truly come true.
[Music]
When both husband and wife are Buddhists of the
temple, we share empathy for
each other and
together we can diligently practice the
Buddha's teachings and cultivate ourselves
under the guidance of the Venerable Master, the Great Sangha, and
the Headmistress Pham Thi Yen. I
also express my gratitude for the merits of the Venerable Master, the
Great Sangha, and the Headmistress Pham Thi
Yen. If it weren't for the Venerable Master, the Great
Sangha, and the
Headmistress, I wouldn't be
sitting here now to say these words from the bottom of
my heart. I also respectfully pray that the Venerable
Master and the Great Sangha of the late
Headmistress will always be the
guiding light for all sentient beings, and
especially for my husband,
my family, and me. That's all.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni  Today, I am very happy to see you,
Master, and all the Venerable Monks and Nuns. I am so
grateful to have you all here. I am so happy to have you all. It's true that I have been a
companion to
Tuan from the very first step.
We are truly Buddhists.
Yes, perhaps our concern for Tuan is no different from that of
his parents.
[Applause]
When I arrived at the house,
I saw a scene I had never seen
before. I felt so sorry for him. Blood was
gushing from his nose, and he was
standing there in a basin. He was so
small. His parents were
also exhausted. The whole family was the same, but
they encouraged me. I
told them, "If there's no way to save him, there's still hope." The Buddha's teachings are very miraculous for those with a compassionate heart. Because Tuan had been examined by a professor from America who removed a triangular piece from the tumors for biopsy. The professor said he could
n't be saved and that Tuan was
only in his final moments. So,
when the Master gave us the instruction, we
brought him along with his family.  The Buddhist community
in Ha Long and our Dharma centers
continuously chanted scriptures for the child four times a day,
from
3, 4, and 5 AM, to 9 AM,
2:30 AM, and 7 PM.
After
a week of chanting,
the bleeding on the
biopsy sample completely stopped.
We were so happy and
joyful. Every day we
checked on the child, and I went to do my duties and
came to see the child as soon as I got home. The other Dharma
centers truly loved each other like family, so
we
monitored every second and every minute. We are
very happy, and today I
witnessed the child's
happiness. I am
very moved and happy.
Today, I ask
permission from the Master to send my best
wishes
to
the newlyweds. May they
always be close to each other,
enjoying happiness
from the Three Jewels,
being Dharma friends,
not only in this life but in many
future lives, practicing filial piety and
following the Buddha's teachings.  To become
diligent Buddhists who benefit
themselves and the multitude, the
Buddha's teachings are like a miraculous elixir. Whoever
drinks it and practices it will be freed from
illness, suffering, and afflictions. Buddhists,
from the happiness they have gained in
the Dharma, should wholeheartedly share it so that
many people may be happy and
their
suffering may be transformed. And I also wish
your family a peaceful rest, the
blessings of the Buddhas and the Three Jewels, and
all things auspicious. Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni
[music]